Document RFC process (#5685)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/rfcs/index.md

# RFCs

> We value writing down plans so that we can asynchronously communicate to and solicit feedback from our distributed team. A good plan communicates what problem is being solved, why that problem is being prioritized now, and what the plan is to solve the identified problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We value writing down plans so that we can asynchronously communicate to and solicit feedback from our remote-first team. A good plan communicates what problem is being solved, why that problem is being prioritized now, and what the plan is to solve the identified problem.
```

  - You can link to another tool where the code snippet can be better formatted (e.g. Gist, PR).

Rejected alternatives:

- [Notion](https://www.notion.so)
  - Comments on documents are too hidden and easy to miss.
  - We would have to manage a separate account system or pay for SSO.
- Markdown in git
  - We actually [tried this for over a year](https://github.com/sourcegraph/docs-private) and stopped.
  - GitHub PRs don't provide a good commenting experience.
    - Can only comment on lines, not words.
    - Suggestions are cumbersome to make/read.
    - Even with recent improvements to collapse old threads, the PR activity page becomes cumbersome after a lot of discussion has happened on a document.
  - It is higher friction to author and/or contribute to multiple RFCs due to either (1) the necessary git workflow or (2) the clunky editing experience in GitHub's UI.

## RFC structure

Effective RFCs contain the following information:
  - Title that includes the RFC number.
    - The title is inlined in the Google Doc so that it is more visible and will not disappear if exported to a different format.

>   - Metadata about the state of the RFC.

Reviewer: Another useful metadata item is any links to related items e.g. to the issue when it gets ported to github. It's easier to find quickly than if it is in the status/outcome sentences.

    - Use this URL https://app.hubspot.com/contacts/2762526/companies/list/view/all/?query=%s
    ![Hubspot search](hubspot-search.png)
    - Don't share the link to the search results (it has the company name in the search)! Instead, share the direct link to the company; it should look like this: https://app.hubspot.com/contacts/2762526/company/557690851/.
    ![Hubspot results](hubspot-results.png)
- If there is strategic information that shouldn't be public, you can post it in Slack and link to it from the public RFC.
- If a material amount of the content is non-public then it is ok to make the RFC only accessible to the Sourcegraph team.

Only Sourcegraph teammates are able to see the revision history of RFCs (because edit access is required for that). This means if sensitive information is found in the document all you need to do is remove that information. Comments that accidentally contain sensitive info can be deleted.

## References

- [RFC 27: Standardizing RFCs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ym5c8G5JcrFf5s0QXJqQKBcZRziVAZZsxWdcUJ7Ukfw/edit?ts=5d77618b#)

> - [Scaling Engineering Teams via Writing Things Down and Sharing - aka RFCs](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/scaling-engineering-teams-via-writing-things-down-rfcs/)

Reviewer: Maybe also worth mentioning [Shape Up](https://basecamp.com/shapeup)?

Author: Good idea, added!
